# OS weekly meeting

Thursday 20/06/19

## Attendees

- @zaibon
- @maxux
- @leesmet
- @delandtj
- @azmy

## progress Update

### Network

- Basic network resource application done (https://github.com/threefoldtech/zos/issues/61)
- Need more reserarch/testing for hidden node (behind nat)

### Storage

- Logic for creation of the cache disks is ready
- Some thinking has been done on how we could make the cache disk use as less storage as possible, with possiblity to extend it when needed
- All the code to manage sub-volumes is there. Still need to expose the primitives over zbus. PR for that should be open today

### CoreX

- v2.0.0 has been released, yeah !

### 0-Hub

- Change to allow to run 0-hub in a private environement is done
- Ready for new release

### 0-Flist

- Work regarding flist manipulation has started

### Build pipeline

- PR for binary building is open
- Need to write down release flow (from code to upgrade flist)

### Identidt module

- Zaibon started discussion about how to indetify a node

## Next steps

Once all low level modules are done, we need to look into provisioning module
